TTIG claiming (#424)
TheThingsIndustries/lorawan-stack-docs: doc/content/gateways/thethingsindoorgateway/_index.md

---
title: "The Things Indoor Gateway"
description: ""
distributions: ["Community", "Cloud"]
new_in_version: 3.13.3
---

This page guides you to connect {{% ttig %}} to {{% tts %}}.

<!--more-->

{{% ttig %}} is an 8 Channel LoRaWAN gateway, whose technical specifications can be found in [the official documentation](https://www.thethingsnetwork.org/docs/gateways/thethingsindoor/). 

{{< figure src="TTIG.jpeg" alt="{{% ttig %}}" >}}

## Prerequisites

1. User account on {{% tts %}} with rights to create Gateways and API Keys.

> 2. The EUI of the gateway. This EUI is a **16 character** value that can be found at the bottom in the WiFi setup screen.

Reviewer: At this point you haven't connected to your gateway to WiFi yet. Perhaps just derive it from the MAC on the sticker?

So start with the `58A0CB` on the sticker, then `FFFE` if it's not on the sticker, then `80****`.

---
title: "The Things Indoor Gateway"
description: ""
distributions: ["Community", "Cloud"]
new_in_version: 3.13.3
---

This page guides you to connect {{% ttig %}} to {{% tts %}}.

<!--more-->

{{% ttig %}} is an 8 Channel LoRaWAN gateway, whose technical specifications can be found in [the official documentation](https://www.thethingsnetwork.org/docs/gateways/thethingsindoor/). 

{{< figure src="TTIG.jpeg" alt="{{% ttig %}}" >}}

## Prerequisites

1. User account on {{% tts %}} with rights to create Gateways and API Keys.
2. The EUI of the gateway. This EUI is a **16 character** value that can be found at the bottom in the WiFi setup screen.
{{< figure src="TTIG_EUI.png" alt="{{% ttig %}} EUI" >}}

> {{< note >}} The EUI of the gateway is **NOT** the WiFi MAC address printed on the back of the gateway, but is derived from the first number that typically is of the form **58A0CBxxxxxx**. It's located on the top of the sticker below the QR code. For example, if that number is 5BA0CB800BE7, insert **FFFE** after the first 6 characters to make it a 16 character Gateway EUI like 5BA0CBFFFE800BE7{{</ note >}}

Author: This is not correct but I can fix that.

3. The WiFi password of the {{% ttig %}}, typically printed on the back of the gateway. 

## Claiming {{% ttig %}}

{{% ttig %}} is added to The Things Stack via a process called **Gateway Claiming**.

> {{< warning >}} Do not register your TTIGs via the regular option of **Adding Gateways**. {{</ warning >}}

Reviewer 2: Link this: https://www.thethingsindustries.com/docs/gateways/adding-gateways/

Author: I wanted to originally but links don't seem to work inside the shortcode.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< warning >}} Do not register your TTIGs via the regular option of [**Adding Gateways**]({{< ref "/gateways/adding-gateways" >}}). {{</ warning >}}
```

Reviewer 2: this should work

### Procedure

> 

Reviewer 2: You can remove this title

> Go to **Gateways** in the top menu, and click **Claim Gateway** to reach the gateway claiming page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Go to **Gateways** in the top menu, and click the **Claim Gateway** button on the upper right to reach the gateway claiming page.
```

> Fill the **Gateway EUI**, the **Claim authentication code** (the WiFi Password), the **Gateway ID** and choose the appropriate **Frequency Plan**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Fill the **Gateway EUI**, the **Claim authentication code** (the WiFi password from Prerequisites), the **Gateway ID** and choose the appropriate **Frequency Plan**.
```

Click **Claim gateway** to finish.

{{< figure src="TTIG_Claim.png" alt="{{% ttig %}} Claiming" >}}

> If your inputs are correct, a new gateway will be created and you will be redirected to the gateway overview page of your newly created gateway.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If your inputs are correct, a new gateway will be created and you will be redirected to your newly created gateway's overview page.
```

Author: I prefer the original.

## Connecting {{% ttig %}}

> ### New Gateways

Reviewer 2: Is this for gateways that haven't been connected before at all? Not even V2? Can you please add a short line on the beginning that explains this

> Press the reset button (small button at the back of the gateway next to the USB-C port) for 5 seconds until the LED blinks rapidly GREEN<->RED for a couple of times.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Keep the RESET button (small button at the back of the gateway next to the USB-C port) pressed for 5 seconds until the LED blinks rapidly from GREEN to RED and vice versa for a couple of times.
```

Author: I don't think this really improves the usability but ok.

> Hold the SETUP (button at the top of the gateway, next to the LED) for 10 seconds until the LED blinks RED rapidly.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Hold the SETUP button (at the top of the gateway, next to the LED) for 10 seconds until the LED rapidly blinks RED.
```

> The gateway now exposes a WiFi AP whose SSID is **MINIHUB-xxxxxx** where `xxxxxx` is the last 6 digits of the gateway EUI. The password for this network is printed on the back panel of the device under **WiFi PW**.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The gateway now exposes a WiFi access point whose SSID is **MINIHUB-xxxxxx**, where `xxxxxx` are the last 6 digits of the gateway EUI. The password for this network is printed on the back panel of the device under **WiFi PW** (the WiFi password from the Prerequisites).
```

> After connecting to this network go to *192.168.4.1* using a web browser to access the WiFi config page.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After connecting to this network go to `192.168.4.1` using a web browser to access the WiFi config page.

```

{{< figure src="TTIG_WiFi_Setup.png" alt="{{% ttig %}} WiFi Setup" >}}

> Select the WiFi network by clicking the **+** button on the desired network (and enter the password if it's a secure network).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Select the WiFi network by clicking the **+** button next to the desired network (and enter its password if it is a secure network).
```

{{< note >}} {{% ttig %}} does not support enterprise WiFi networks. {{</ note >}}

> Select the **Save and Reboot** option. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Click **Save and Reboot** to finish. 
```

If your configuration is correct, 

>   * The gateway will blink GREEN for a few seconds while it connects to this network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * The gateway will blink GREEN for a few seconds until it connects to the selected WiFi network.
```

>   * Then, it will blink GREEN<->RED for a few seconds while it connects to the server and fetches the necessary configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Then, it will blink from GREEN to RED and vice versa for a few seconds while it connects to the server and fetches the necessary configuration.
```

>   * Please allow 5-10 mins for the gateway to pick up new configuration. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * Please allow 5-10 minutes for the gateway to pick up the new configuration. 
```

> {{< note >}} If this is the first time your gateway is being powered on/connected to WiFi, it might pickup a new firmware depending on when it was last updated. This is indicted by alternating GREEN/RED blinks of the LED. Please leave the gateway powered on when this happens. {{</ note >}}

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
{{< note >}} If this is the first time your gateway is being powered on/connected to WiFi, it might pick up a new firmware depending on when it was last updated. This is indicated by alternating GREEN/RED blinks of the LED. Please leave the gateway powered on when this happens. {{</ note >}}
```

### Gateways Connected to Another LNS

> If the {{% ttig %}} is currently connected to another LNS, do either of the following

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the {{% ttig %}} is currently connected to another LNS, do either of the following:

```

Author: a Colon isn't necessary if the sentence is followed by a bulleted list.

- Wait up to 24 hrs (this is the default action for gateways that are not physically reachable). {{% ttig %}} connects to the server every 24 hours to check for new configuration.
- Unplug the power supply, wait for a few seconds and plug it back in. {{% ttig %}} now connects to the server to check for new configuration.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Errors

#### Gateway Not Authorized for Claiming

> If you have already registered your TTIG, you have the following options

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have already registered your TTIG, you have two following options:
```

Reviewer 2: registered where? on TTS?

> a. If you would like to retain the Gateway ID that you registered it with, support will be added in a subsequent release to claim the gateway while retaining it's current Gateway ID.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. If you would like to retain the Gateway ID that you registered it with, support will be added in a subsequent release to claim the gateway while retaining its current Gateway ID.
```

Reviewer 2: I don't understand this, you mean the support to do this will be added in the next TTS release?

Author: Yes that's what it means.

> b. If you would like to claim the gateway with a new Gateway ID, you can delete the existing gateway and follow the claiming process below with a new Gateway ID.

Reviewer 2: delete from where? TTS? also, did you mean claiming process above?

#### Gateway with ID Already Exists

This means that either you or another user has already used the Gateway ID. Please choose another ID and try again.

### LED States

|Color(s) | Illumination Pattern |Operating Mode | Meaning|
|---|---|---|---| 
|GREEN|Blinking (freq 1 sec)|GW| WiFi not connected (or trying to connect)|

> |GREEN|Blinking (freq 1/4 sec)|GW| Connected to WiFi, establishing connection to LNS/Configuring radio|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|GREEN|Blinking (freq 1/4 sec)|GW| Connected to WiFi, establishing connection to LNS/configuring radio|
```

> |GREEN|Solid|GW| Connected to WiFi, connected to LNS backend, listening for Packets|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|GREEN|Solid|GW| Connected to WiFi, connected to LNS backend, listening for packets|
```

> |GREEN/RED|Alternate Blinking (freq 1/4 sec)|CONF| Scanning WiFi networks, setting up Config AP|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|GREEN/RED|Alternate blinking (freq 1/4 sec)|CONF| Scanning WiFi networks, setting up Config AP|
```

> |RED|Blinking (freq 1/4 sec)|CONF| Config AP Active|

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
|RED|Blinking (freq 1/4 sec)|CONF| Config AP active|
```

### Button Actions

> There are three possible button actions on the TTIG
> * SETUP Button pressed for 10s: 
>   * Switch to CONF mode if in GW mode.
> * SETUP Button pressed for 5s:
>   * Reboot if in CONF mode, do nothing in GW mode.
> * RESET Button pressed for 5s:
>   * Factory reset (wipe out WiFi and LNS credentials, though CUPS credentials are retained).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
There are three possible button actions on the TTIG that are listed below.

* SETUP button pressed for 10s: 
  * Switch to CONF mode if in GW mode
* SETUP button pressed for 5s:
  * Reboot if in CONF mode, do nothing in GW mode
* RESET button pressed for 5s:
  * Factory reset (wipe out WiFi and LNS credentials, retain CUPS credentials)
```
